Okay, now we can proceed
straight to linting.
And that is going to be in our eslint RC.
This is where we're going to we're
going to install the typescript
specific linting.
So that's going to be yarn,
add typescript-eslint recommended.
Sorry.
Two things, a typescript-eslint, it's
the GitHub org and the NPM package scope.
You only have to remember one thing,
right?
That is where all this stuff is located.
And you're installing two things,
parser so
that eslint can understand typescript and
the eslint plugin, so
that it can provide you feedback about
your typescript, need them both.
And now we can go in here and
let's see what our parser currently is.
Okay, it looks like we may have
already had that which is fine because
the typescript-eslint parser
can understand JavaScript too.
And then we have to add this to
the extends section, add some other stuff.
And I'm gonna explain what some of
the things that are already in here do.
That is some great autocomplete there.
I was not looking forward to typing that,
I'm gonna add 'both of these.
No, don't rob me of that now.
Yes, okay, so, if you don't remember,
like these are exactly the ones that
we added to our small library before.
The project here, just as before,
we had a special eslint oriented
typescript config, right?
This is something that looks at
both our tests and our source code.
Same thing exists here.
We already talked about that.
I need to talk about that with you again.
Because I think we have more
interesting things to focus on here.
And, One
thing that is new because prettier
is part of this setup here,
one thing that is new is I have
prettier typescript-eslint.
So the the eslint plugin for
prettier is important and
you'll only realize how important it is if
you have a situation where prettier and
eslint are fighting against each other.
So imagine that one of those tools wants
to auto format your files one way and
then eslint--fix wants to auto
format your file another way.
Or you could have things where
like prettier does its thing and
now eslint is unhappy and vice versa.
So the whole point of this is
to have eslint back off around
anything that is prettier's job And
they have a special
typescript specific rule set,
which can involve turning some things off,
a rule set doesn't have to mean opting
into things it can mean opting out.
So it's important to
have the right ones here.
Consult the eslint plugin prettier
README because it's a little
bit nuanced how to set this up
even the ordering of these things
in this list is important.
So save yourself some time and
take a look at that
README because it is more
nuanced than one might expect.
I kind of want to see how
things run right now.
Let's see if we're ready to go.
So you can see where we're running
our lint across many folders here and
we got a bunch of warnings
We have some errors.
Where are those errors happening?
They're happening in my server.
Unsafe assignment, no var requires.
So what I can do here, and where all that
is happening it's in the little JSON
server stuff that's happening here it's
not typescript, it's just JavaScript.
But that's what overrides are for, right?
We can pass one or
more objects into this overrides option.
And we can enable or
disable certain rules based on that.
So here I can say rules,
this one disabled, I think it's off.
And then unsafe member access,
unsafe assignment,
like I just don't want to
get too sucked into that.
Cuz we really haven't touched that code.
Let's just disable as
many of these as we can.
Comma, paste off.
All right, let's see where we stand.
So we had 48 problems, 39 errors.
Let's see if we've dramatically
improved our situation.
Oops, I see a mistake.
I'm just running it again because I
corrected at a leading space here
that would have possibly
screwed things up.
All right, we're down to eight errors.
Let's see if there's just more
stuff we need to disable for
the server area it looks like it.
So no var requires,
that looks like another one.
Oops.
We need a comma.
And it looks like, there's unbound method.
So normally like I would want to
take a swing at some of these but.
Again, I'm resisting the temptation
to sort of pile too much into one
poll request,
what would be a pull request.
One more error.
What's going on here?
No unsafe return again in the server
thing, Several folder.
Still one error, this is probably because
fixing one error resolved another, no,
it's because I misspelled this typescript
and I expect we'll get a pass here.
Awesome.
Okay, so now we're at a point where we
got some typescript specific linting.
We have a nice a reasonably
strict compiler setting.
We still have a lot of explicit entities.
And so now even with the eslint,
you could say, You did this,
And now it's really going to light up.
This is your incremental stuff where you
go and you sorta chip away at the explicit
entities that are sorta littered
throughout this app at this point.
No, it would show up with the linting job.
I found out that I made
a really silly mistake here.
I was up here trying to figure out why
I was unable to turn on
this no-explicit-any rule.
And it turns out again,
like it's from my experience,
I am likely to have made a mistake here.
So I just looked elsewhere to see
if in this file, I don't know, turn
this rule off for all typescript files,
it turns out, that's exactly what I did.
So if I just simply, delete that actually,
it's better if I delete this thing up here
because this is a rule that applies across
my whole codebase and I really just
want it to apply to TypeScript files.
And that's this section here, right?
Everything in my source and
tests folder with the TS or TSX extension.
So here I can turn this back on,
if you really like error.
And let's see if I can run this now it
should show a bunch more errors and
I just want to show that it will
surface them and then we can move on.
I'm not gonna make you
watch me play whack a mole.
What if we just disable
like just remove these?
And it's not TSC of course it's
eslint that we're trying to run.
This is why it's even more
important to keep separate,
to know what role each element
of your tool chain has.
Because it's very easy to get confused
about what is TSC validating,
what's typescript validating,
what's eslint checking for.
Everything kind of gets mixed up.
So now, of course,
now that I am not contradicting
myself in my own config file,
here we've got a bunch of
different things like invalid
type any of a template literal expression,
right?
Unexpected type any,
specify a different type.
So now we can see this is where one by
one we could peel off those rules and
sort of ratchet up our safety as we go.
I'm going to leave them disabled,
but I just wanted you to see
that it does in fact work and
I'll leave this off actually,
it does, in fact, work and
the only problem I ran into there was
That the file was getting complicated and
I had a rule, globally enabled,
and then disabled for an override
the pointer to all of my typescript.
So I turned it on and then off.